.TH dilithium 1 "" "fvwm Crystal" .
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110
.\"  -1301 USA
.\"

.SH NAME
.B dilithium
\- Launcher for FVWM Display manager with Crystal environment

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dilithium [options] [-c <client> [-a <client arguments> ]] [-s <xserver> [-x <xserver arguments> ]]

.SH EXAMPLES

	1. dilithium -client /usr/bin/fvwm-crystal -s /usr/bin/X -x -br
	2. dilithium --daemon --no-kill
	3. /etc/init.d/dilithium start

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B Dilithium
program is used to start the X Window System server and fvwm client display manager using the crystal interface configuration on systems that cannot start X directly from /etc/init or in environments that use multiple window systems. Dilithium utilizes the xinit program to accomplish this task. Dilithium attempts to auto-configure all options and environment settings in order to start the X sever with fvwm-crystal. Options may also be specified using command line parameters. Parameters are optional and are non-positional, for example the server argument could be specified before the client or the server after the server arguments. The parameters are case sensitive. Since the client display manager is a parameter, Dilithium can be used to start other display managers.

Dilithium can be used to start fvwm-crystal in different situations without addition information. Both startX and xinit attempt to do this but are not reliable in some envirnments, such as Debian and direvitives, without additional parameters. Dilithium can be used to start Crystal from a command line or in conjunction with initialization scripts such as Sys V init.d scripts. Example initialization scripts are provided. On some systems, such as Debian, options for Sys V initialization can be set using /etc/default/dilithium parameter file. A default parameter file is also provided. On systems where multiple display managers are installed, there are a couple of other optional files that may facilitate starting fvwm-crystal:

1. /etc/X11/cyrstal-display-manager
2. ~/.xinit

The first file, crystal-display-manager, only needs to contain "/usr/bin/fvwm-crystal" on one line, without the quotes.
The second file, .xinit, contain a line with: "exec fvwm-crystal" also without the quotes, but this file can also contain other information.

Generally only one primary display manager is running on one X server and most modern Linux systems automatically boot into a Graphical User Interface such as gdm3. It is not uncommon to have 2 or more display managers installed and switch between managers using gsettings or the unfriendly "greeter". It is also entirely possible to have multiple display managers running at the same time. As a simple example, from within gdm or gdm3, open a terminal and type "sudo dilithium" <enter>. This will start a second server with fvwm-crystal as the display manager using the next available display. "Display" in this context refers to a virtual display not a physical display. To switch back to the gdm3 session use the key combination CTRL-ALT-F7. If you see a login prompt then try CTRL-ALT-F8. To switch back to the fvwm-crystal session use CTRL-ALT & the next F-key, either F8 or F9. (Note that most Linux systems are configured to use 6 or 7 seperate virtual terminals, which one can switch between using the ALT-F1 thru - F6 or F7 key combinations. To switch away from a Graphical display terminal the CTRL key must be added. So if while trying to switch between the Graphical display terminals in this example using CTRL-ALT-F? and you see a login prompt, which is running on one of the virtual terminals then you don't need to add the CTRL key. If you see a login prompt then you only need use the ALT-F key combination to switch between the terminals, for example ALT-F2 will switch to virtual terminal 2. From the virtual terminal screen use ALT-F7 or ALT-F8 (depending on how many virtual terminals are configured, to switch back to the Graphical terminals).

Switch back to the display and desktop with the terminal window type "sudo dilithium" was enter and "select" the window by clicking on window, then use the "CTRL-C" key combination to cancel or kills the second X server and display manager. If all else fails, select re-start or re-boot from either manager to restore the system back to normal. This is just an example to demonstrate running two separate display managers simultaneously. A more realistic application would be to start gdm3 for run level 2 or 3 and use dilithium to start fvwm-crystal for a different run-level.

Note that Dilithium does not check command line arguments, for example if "--client /usr/bin/grapes --cargs purple" is specified then this will passed to xinit.

.SH PARAMETERS
.IP "-c, --client <client>"
This is the name of the program that will be passed to xinit as the client argument. The default is /usr/bin/fvwm-crystal. Note that xinit requires both the client and the server to have a leading slash character.
.IP "-a, --cargs <client arguments>"
If more then one argument is to be passed to the client then the all of the aguments should be enclosed with single quotes.
.IP "-s, --server <xserver>"
Specify the X server to be passed to xinit. The default is /usr/bin/X.
.IP "-x  --xargs <xserver arguments>"
Specify optional arguments to be passed to the X server, the default is '-br -novtswitch -nolisten'. If more then one argument is to be passed to the server then the all of the aguments should be enclosed with single quotes as shown in the preceding sentence.
.IP ":, --display"
Specify the display to be used for the X server. The default is to determine the next available /tmp/.X?-lock file, where ? is a number from 0 to 9.
.IP "-U, --user"
Specify the user name to establish environments settings and authority. The default is the current value of the USER environment variable.

.SH INFORMATION
Use of the following options displays information related to dilithium but does not create an output file:
.IP "-h, --help"
Show information about the advanced usage of this command.
.IP "-u, --usage"
Displays examples on usage"
.IP "-V, --version"
Displays software version information"

.SH DIRECTIVES
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Include additional information during processing. If --verbose is specified after --debug then verbose is disabled. Using --verbose automaticaly enables the "-verbose" "-logverbose" server aguments with log level 7.
.IP "-q, --quite"
Suppress output messages.
.IP "--daemon"
Transform module to daemon. Note that if dilithium is renamed dilithium.d or if the program is started using a symbolic link named dilithium.d (with the "dot-d" added to the end of the file name), then dilithium will automaticaly transform into a daemon even without the --daemon parameter.
.IP "--no-drop"
Do not drop privileges. Normally during Sys V initialization daemons programs are started with higher then normal privileges. For security purposes, dilithium forfeits these privileges. Use this option to allow dilithium to retain system privileges.
.IP "--no-kill"
By default, when the dilithium process is terminated, dilithium will attempt to kill the child xinit process, which will also kill the associated X server. This is so that /etc/init.d/dilithium stop will terminate the fvwm-crystal session. If the --no-kill option is used then dilithium will not terminate the child processes and the X-session must be terminated by some other means.
.IP "--no-log
Do not create a seperate log, use syslog.\n");
.IP "--logfile <filespec>
Specify the name log file The default is "/var/log/dilithium.log". Unlike most logs, dilithium log is not accumulative, the file is overwritten each time dilithium is invoked. Information from previous invocation can be obtain from the system log.
.IP "-d, --debug"
Configures all the settings and prints debug information, including the command-line like statement with parameters.

.SH HOMEPAGE
none

.SH BUGS
Your on a limb here, try and send me an email <wiley-no-spam-hill@gmail.com>

.SH AUTHOR
Wiley Edward Hill

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xinit (1), X(7), startx(1), Xserver(1), Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5)

.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright \(co 2013 Wiley Edward Hill.  License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later.  Please see the `COPYING' file included with this program for full details.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY to any extent.



